---
tags: 
date: 2024-12-06
---
# Play-by-Post

<span class="firstletter">X</span><span class="firstwords">xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx</span>

*Guidelines for playing-by-post, taking inspiration from [Yochai’s “How I do Play by Post”](https://newschoolrevolution.com/2024/12/06/how-to-pbp) and [Tam’s “Playing by Post”](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bTyEJfX_LM0WkK5qgNHmOUKyiWnUstTG/view)*

## Channels

- **play:** Here is where we play! By post!
- **record:** I will post the play record here, recapping in mechanical terms the passage of time and what has happened.
- **guide:** This is the place for rules, procedures, maps, handouts, lore, etc.
- **chat:** Talk about the game in a meta way—rules questions and clarifications, planning and plotting, etc. (Also, chat about generally whatever here.)

## Formatting

- In the **play** channel, use third-person prose to describe what your character is doing, putting character dialogue in quotations.
- Put out-of-character talk, clarifications, and rules questions in [brackets] (or in the **chat** channel).
- Wait to make a roll until instructed by the referee.
- To roll dice, type: “!roll 1d20” (or whatever dice are called for, without the quotation marks).

## Expectations

- We will do at least one cycle each day—be it a combat round, dungeon turn, wilderness watch, or downtime week—following the Basic Procedure[^1].
- If you do not post during a cycle, your character will be assumed to go along with whatever.
- Character sheets will be kept together in a shared Google Sheet—keep them updated please!
- The referee will tell you when and what to mark off, but it is the party’s responsibility to track their own supplies—this is important!

[^1]: Basic Procedure: 1, referee describes the situation; 2, players ask questions and declare actions; 3, referee describes outcomes and calls for rolls.